.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Carnegie Mellon University
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public License as published
.\" by the Free Software Foundation.  A copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" should have been distributed along with this program in the file
.\" COPYING.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8
.\" Followed by date (YYYY-MM-DD)
.\" Adjust the date whenever revising this page
.TH VMNETX-GENERATE 1 2013-05-09 "VMNetX 0.3.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vmnetx-generate \- Construct a new VMNetX virtual machine image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vmnetx-generate
.RB [ \ \-cnu \ ]
.IR DOMAIN-XML \ [ \ OUT-FILE \ ]
.br
.B vmnetx-generate
.B \-r
.I PACKAGE-URL OUT-FILE
.br
.B vmnetx-generate
.B \-a
.I SHORT-NAME MEMORY-MB DISK-GB
.\" .br
.\" .B vmnetx-generate
.\" .B \-c
.\" .I domain-xml
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmnetx-generate
creates and operates on
.B vmnetx
compatible virtual machines.
.B vmnetx-generate
provides a suite for adding new blank virtual machines to
.BR virt-manager ,
validating domain XML, and generating
.I .nxpk
virtual machine packages from existing virtual machine images.
.SS Virtual Machine Lifecycle
Virtual machines are created in
.B virt-manager
using the
.B vmnetx-generate -a
command.  The resulting domain XML must be hand-modified to conform to the VMNetX requirements using
.B vmnetx-generate -c
which will print validation errors to standard output.
.PP
Once no errors are returned by
.B vmnetx-generate -c
then a VMNetX virtual machine package can be generate using
.BR vmnetx-generate\ -n .
The resulting 
.I .nxpk
file can be uploaded to a webserver and downloaded and executed.
.PP
To enable users to execute the virtual machine without downloading the entire package, you must create a reference file using
.BR vmnetx-generate\ -r .
This file should be uploaded to the webserver with the
.I .netx
extension and the
.I application/x-vmnetx-reference+xml
content type. The link to this
.I .netx
file should be published for access.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\^\-version
Print the version number of
.B vmnetx-generate
to the standard output stream, then exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\^\-help
Print a usage message summarizing these options, then exit.
.TP
.BI \-a\  NAME \fR,\ \fB\-\-add= NAME
Create a blank virtual machine and add it to
.B virt-manager
where
.I NAME
is the friendly name displayed in the titlebar of the running VM.
.TP
.BI \-c\  PATH \fR,\ \fB\-\-check\-xml= PATH
Validate domain xml at
.IR PATH .
.TP
.BI \-n\  NAME \fR,\ \fB\-\-name= NAME
Name of the virtual machine to create where
.I NAME
is the friendly name displayed in the titlebar of the running VM.
.TP
.BI \-r\  URL \fR,\ \fB\-\-reference= URL
Create a reference file to a remote VMNetX package to enable users to execute the virtual machine without downloading the full package.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-uncompressed
Do not compress memory and disk images at package creation.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP \w'vmnetx-generate\ 'u
.BI vmnetx-generate\ \-n \ windows3.1 \ \-u \ ~/.libvirt/qemu/windows311.xml\ ~/windows311.nxpk
Creates an uncompressed
.I .nxpk
file in the user's home directory. This is a
.B VMNetX
package which is ready to be uploaded to a webserver or accessed remotely.
.TP
.BI vmnetx-generate\ \-r \ http://example.com/package.nxpk\ ~/package.netx
Creates an executable
.I .netx
file in the user's home directory.  This file contains a reference to the remote 
.I .nxpk
file and can be executed by VMNetX to run the referenced VM without downloading the full package.
.TP
.BI vmnetx-generate\ \-a \ dos622\ 1024\ 1
Creates a new blank virtual machine named
.I dos622
with
.IR 1024 MB
of allocated RAM and
.IR 1 GB
of allocated disk space and adds it to
.BR virt-manager .
.TP
.BI vmnetx-generate\ \-c \ ~/.libvirt/qemu/macos.xml
Checks domain XML at the supplied path for VMNetX compatibility.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2006-2013 Carnegie Mellon University.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
for more details.
.
.SH BUGS
.BR vmnetx 's
bug tracker and source repository are located at
.RB < https://github.com/cmusatyalab/vmnetx >.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vmnetx (1), 
.BR qemu (1),
.BR qemu-kvm (1)
.\" This is allegedly a workaround for some troff -man implementations.
.br
