.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8
.\" Followed by date (YYYY-MM-DD)
.\" Adjust the date whenever revising this page
.TH VMNETX 1 2013-05-09 "VMNetX 0.3.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vmnetx \- Virtual Machine Network Execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vmnetx
.RI [ \ OPTIONS \ ] \ LOCATION
.\" .sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmnetx
executes a
.BR kvm -based
virtual machine whose VMNetX reference file or package is located at the supplied 
.IR LOCATION .
The supplied path should point to either a
.I .netx
file or a 
.I .nxpk
file.
.TP
VMNetX allows virtual machines to be stored on a web server and executed on-demand on a client system. The entire disk and memory state are not downloaded before starting the VM; instead, disk and memory chunks are retrieved on demand from the web server and then cached on the client.
.SS Local and Remote VMs
VMNetX can handle either local or remote virtual machine images.  If the
.I .nxpk
file is stored locally, you can invoke the VMNetX package directly with
.BI vmnetx \ /path/to/vm.nxpk \fR.
.PP
The alternative method for accessing VMNetX formatted virtual machine packages
is via a
.I .netx
file, which contains a reference URL to a remote VMNetX package.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\^\-version
Print the version number of
.B vmnetx
to the standard output stream, then exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\^\-help
Print a usage message summarizing these options, then exit.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP \w'vmnetx\ 'u
.BI vmnetx \ windows311.netx
Executes the virtual machine whose metadata
.I location
is the current working directory in a file called
.IR windows311.netx .
.sp
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2006-2013 Carnegie Mellon University.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
for more details.
.
.SH BUGS
VMNetX's bug tracker and source repository are located at
.RB < https://github.com/cmusatyalab/vmnetx >.
.\" .SH FILES
.\" .TP
.\" .I /usr/share/applications/vmnetx.desktop
.\" Desktop entry file for
.\" .BR vmnetx .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vmnetx-generate (1), 
.BR qemu (1),
.BR qemu-kvm (1)
.\" This is allegedly a workaround for some troff -man implementations.
.br
